-----------------------
5mks
----------------------
Section A
------------------
1)  What is the purpose of boot block? Explain four block file system implementation in LINUX with diagram. 

2) What is process? Explain job states and its associated commands with each state of process. 

3) How to change standard streams while executing commands in LINUX? Explain redirection feature of LINUX with proper example. 

4)  What is the use of environment variables? Explain any five environment variables with appropriate example. 

5) Write a note on positional parameters and shift command with appropriate example.  

6) Explain grouped, sequenced, chained and conditional command execution with example.

7)Explain four blocks of file system with appropriate diagram. 

8). What is wildcards? Is wildcard works on content of file? Illustrate with example any two wildcards in detail. 

9). Why shell is known as command interpreter? Explain grouped, sequenced chained and conditional command execution with example.   
 
10) Write short note on command execution process with example.

-----------------------
Section B
----------------------------
1)  “Awk script does not execute without BEGIN and END pattern.” Justify statement. Also list and explain any four system variables supported by awk. 

2) “Filters can manipulates the content of file.” Write true or false with justification. Explain cut, sort and uniq filter with proper example.  

3) Does awk supports string index in array? Write a note on associative array. 

4)  Explain address and commands in sed utility with appropriate example.  

5) What do you mean by regular expression? Explain any four operators in regular expression with example. 

6) Explain redirection feature of shell with example. 

7)How many types of files are available in UNIX? Explain any six in detail. 

8)Write a note on shell’s command interpretation cycle with the example. 

9) What is filter? Is filters manipulates the data stored in file? Where the effect of filter is reflect? Explain grep filter in detail. 
  
10) Explain three quotes supported by shell with example. 